No matter how many videos are made on term insurance
, no matter how many experts come, people's
confusion never seems to end.
And that is, which
term plan is the best term plan for me.  Which
brand is trustworthy?  Which
premium provides true value?  Every year new
plans come, new riders come and
different suggestions are received from different agents
and people become more confused due to this.
Some say HDFC is the best.  Some
say Tata is the AI ​​king.  Some say
ICICI is God and some call Max Life
unbeatable.  But the truth is that unless
you understand these three core parameters, no
plan is going to be the right or best plan for you.
So let us end this confusion forever today.
Today I will tell you three such parameters
which are
mandatory for you to look at before choosing term insurance.  Whether you
see anything else or not, you must check these three things.
Based on these parameters,
I will also compare two live plans
so that you can understand how this theory
applies in the real world.  And if
you want to consider any other plan apart from these, then
you
can also do your own research with the help of Ditto.  Ditto
is not an agent of any one company.  This is an
unbiased guide that compares and provides the best fit plans for you.
Here you
can also read in-depth articles and guides
that will help you avoid insurance frauds and mistakes.
And the best part is
that Ditto doesn't bother you by calling you every day.  It
is spam free.  You can book a
free consultation of 30 minutes as per your convenience.
Stress
free, pressure free anytime.  I have given the link for this
in the description.  Go there and
book a free 30-minute call.  By the
end of this video, you will have a clear roadmap on
how to choose the right cover for your family in the coming new year.
How to optimize premiums
and make the claim process hassle-
free.  This video will be the best
guide proof for you.  But before going further, till now
only 26% of you have
subscribed to this channel, so quickly subscribe to the channel.
Press the bell so that
I can bring you more such amazing content.
See, the first parameter is the
track record of the company.  If I am not there tomorrow, will these
people really stand with my family
?  Let us try to understand the first parameter on this point.
And honestly this is the
most important parameter.  But people pay the
least attention to this.  Why?
Because the numbers written in brush
look very attractive.  Think of this parameter as if
your term plan is an action movie.
You are the hero but the hero dies in the climax.
Now the hero's entire family stands in front of the villain.
Who will save him?
Police or Army?  No, the insurance company.
And if this company turns out to be weak or
irresponsible then the climax will be a total
flop.  So first let us look at HDFC Life.
This company is
that season actor of the insurance industry who
speaks less dialogues but when he speaks, the message reaches the
heart directly.  Their
claim settlement ratio is around 99.55%.
Meaning, if 1000 people make a claim, then the
claims of 995 people will be accepted.
This is dependable behavior.   If we
look at the complaints, there are only 1.3 complaints per 10,000 claims,
which means there are
only 1.3 complaints per 10,000 claims.  This means that
customers do not face any problems.  And
what is the scale?  The business is worth more than Rs 30,000 crore.
When the company becomes so big, the
ecosystem becomes strong.   The
process becomes smoother and the claim
handling infrastructure gets refined.
Now let us look at the claim settlement ratio.
But nobody looks at the solvency ratio.
Their solvency ratio is
1.94.
This is the number that tells
how much money the company has in buffer to pay claims.
Having strong solvency in insurance is as important as having an
emergency fund in a bank account.
Now let's come to the other side of Tata AIA.
This brand is like an energetic hero.
Tata's trust and AIA's expertise
together make a powerful combination.
Its claim settlement ratio is also
99.21% which is very strong.
Complaints around three but not as much as 10,000 good but
HDFC.  The business is around Rs 9,000
crore and the solvency ratio is also 1.8.
All metrics fall into the safe category.
When we place these two side by side,
a slight difference is visible.
HDFC's track record feels a little more
polished, more refined and more
predictable.  The
conclusion of the track record is very simple.  Both companies
are strong.  Both are trustworthy.
Both are safe.  But if you want an
ultra-stable, complaint-free, discipline-
driven insurance that
gives you complete confidence at the time of claims, then HDFC Life has a
slight edge here.  And
this is where its first pillar becomes strong.
Now let us come to parameter number two.
Design of the plan.  Here most of the people
take wrong decisions even without making any mistake.
Plan design simply means
whether the policy you are signing today will last you a
lifetime?  Or you will have to adjust
yourself according to that policy throughout your life.  The
scene becomes very familiar as soon as we sit down to buy insurance.  A
website opens.  The brush scrolls
and attractive words start flashing on the screen one after another.
Life Cover Plus Secure Protect Riders
Premium Everything sounds good but there is
no clarity.  Due to this confusion, people
often say that they will buy the brand which is popular.
But the truth is that the
real test of insurance comes when
life is not going smoothly.  The plan will support you when there is a job change
, when there is a home loan, when the
family is growing, or when your health
starts to deteriorate a bit.
This is
decided solely by the plan design.  Therefore,
plan design should be considered like a marriage relationship.
Everyone's biodata is good.
Profiles are impressive but you should marry
someone who can adjust with you
and with whom you can adjust.  Fit
Match Compatibility.  In insurance too, this
compatibility is everything.  The policy will work only if the
plan matches your life goals, liabilities,
responsibilities and health behaviour.
Otherwise it will
become a liability.  So if you are a bit
structured, like planning
and want things to be predictable,
then plans like HDFC Click to Protect Supreme
are great.  If you want to keep the cover simple then there
is an option.  If you want to increase it with your income, there
is also an option of increasing cover.  And if
your home loan is heavy then there is
also an option of decreasing cover.  Meaning the policy follows you.
You don't chase after policies.  The
control is completely
in your hands and the plan
adjusts according to your life.  Terminal Illness
Benefit is not just a clause
but an uncomfortable truth that needs to be accepted.
When life is in its last stage, the
family does not need motivation or speeches.
They need funds
without any delay.  Life stage benefits also
follow this reality.  Marriage happens, a
child is born, responsibilities increase and the
cover also logically keeps increasing.  This approach
makes insurance realistic.
Not idealistic.  Premium brakes are a
thoughtful feature.  Life is not linear.
Sometimes your job changes.  Sometimes there is a
dip in business, sometimes there is a health issue.
In such moments, a one-year break
provides great relief.  And this plan
allows you to breathe.
Financial pressure should be reduced.  The health management
service along with the smart exit feature
makes it more interesting.  After 25 years,
if you wish, you
can gracefully exit the policy and
also get your premiums back.  This feature
is like a goldmine for those customers who feel that they will
not need a policy in the long term.  The
most powerful thing about this plan is its
riders.  The critical illness rider
provides solid coverage.  But the actual heavy hitter is the
waiver of premium rider.  When life
throws you down, illness or disability
strikes, this rider says I will pay the premium.
You can run the coverage.  It
feels like an emotional safety belt.  And
then comes the AIB rider.  If there is disability, the
company gives monthly income for 10 years.
10 years.  In today's times, this benefit
is priceless.  It not only becomes insurance but
also an EMI protector for your household.
Now let's move on to the Tata Sampoorna Raksha
Promise.  And here the genre of the story
changes a bit.  HDFC was
like mechanical engineering.  Tata AI
is like lifestyle engineering.  Here the plan does
not just provide protection.  Provides a complete wellness
ecosystem.  The options are simple and
clear.  Pure Term Plan, Pure Term
Plan with Return of Premium.  Just easy
decision making.  And then the inbuilt benefits
create a comfort zone right from the beginning.
50% pay out on terminal illness,
premium holiday options, life stage
increments for marriage and kids,
instant pay out of ₹3 lakh at claim
initiation.  But the real magic comes
with health management services.  Unlimited
doctor consultations, specialist support,
pharmacy benefits, testing
discounts, fitness and diet tracking,
medical second opinions, home care services.   This
means that along with the insurance, a small personal
health care universe is available for free.
This becomes a huge value add in today's lifestyle.
Especially for those people
in whose family doctor consultation is a
regular requirement.  The riders
are also strong.  Accidental Death Benefit with
double payout conditions, ATPD Double Benefit
where the payout can be doubled in worst case scenarios of accident.
Critical Plus
covers 40 critical illnesses.  Hospital
cash benefits extend to ICU.
Recuperation benefit is also available to you.   I
give the conclusion of the plan design in one sentence.  If you are a logical thinker, a
structured planner, and prioritize long-term
financial discipline,
then HDFC Click to Protect Supreme
seems to be your best fit.  But if you are family
centric, value holistic wellness, doctor
access, health ecosystem and flexible
features then Tata AIA should be your
plan.  Both are very strong.
Both are very powerful.  Both
are very meaningful.
You will have to decide which one goes with your story.
And now comes the parameter where
most people make mistakes, that is
price versus value.  Do you
want cheap insurance or do you want the right insurance?  Do
you know why insurance fails in India
?  Because people
take decisions after looking at the premium.  This is like
going to a restaurant and
ordering the cheapest item because there is food but you want to
eat the cheapest thing.  Insurance is a
long term commitment.  This is the
product whose bill you are paying
but its return is going to be given to your family
and that too will not be in return.  So
while deciding the premium, one has to stop and
think once.  Do you want a cheap plan or the right
plan?  Let's understand pricing behavior.
Tata AI
seems quite aggressive in terms of premium.
Heavy discounts are available in the first year.
Digital discount of 10% is available.
8.5% to salaried.  Auto Pay provides more benefits.
Tata Group employees
get benefits up to 25%.  Meaning the initial
entry feels quite smooth.  Planning
seems easy and even in the long term the premiums are
slightly lower than HDFC.  This pricing is a
blessing for families
where budget planning is very tight.
You run the house, EMI,
school fees, investments, health, all these
things.  You balance everyone.   In
such a situation, competitive premium seems very appealing.
Now let's come to HDFC Life.   The
premium is slightly on the higher side and this is where
people get confused.  But
in insurance, the relation between premium and value is
not direct.  HDFC's track
record, complaint ratio, claim handling
efficiency, smart exit, premium
brakes, powerful riders and decades of
stability together create a different level of
confidence.  This plan
may be a bit premium heavy, but the
quality of protection is equally solid.
Like a normal helmet versus a
branded helmet.  Even a cheap one will
provide protection but
you realise the difference between a branded helmet and a cheap one at the time of a crash.
Now let's talk about ROP
i.e. return and premium.  Both companies
offer it.  Tata AI's ROP
feels relatively smoother.  HDFC's ROP is
expensive.  But the truth is in one line
that ROP is an emotional feature.  Financially,
this is not a smart thing to do.  You can take
plain term insurance and
invest the premium difference in long term
SIP.  It makes more money than ROP in the long term.
Insurance is
not protection.  Investment is
not a built-in part of it.  The price
vs value verdict is
that Tata AI
is perfect for those who want smart affordability, not cheapness, but for
those who have a wellness
ecosystem and lower premiums.  HDFC
is perfect for those who want a rock
solid insurance with a
clean track record and a
highly dependable plan structure.  You know your household budget.
You know your financial
responsibilities.  You
know your family's risk appetite.  The decision has to be
taken on the basis of this understanding.
And one very important thing that people ignore is that the
term insurance
premium gets locked for the entire policy term.  This
means that even if the plan seems a little expensive today,
after 10-15 years your
income would have increased but the premium would remain the same.  The
real impact of this expense
automatically reduces over time.  That is why it would be
wrong to take a decision just by looking at today's premium.
You should also keep long-term affordability and stability in mind.
So, overall, if the company
is strong, the plan design aligns with your lifestyle
and the premium offers long-term
value, then that is the perfect
term insurance for you.  The two
plans we have seen today are both
amazing.  The strength of both
is different.  Both have different audiences.  But
in your case, you must take this decision within these three
parameters.  That is what will give you
crystal clear decision making.  So
friends, I would like to say this much in the end.
Insurance is like a parachute.  If You Don't Have It When
You Need It, You Will Never Need
It Again.  That means if you don't have a parachute on the day you need it,
you wo
n't need one again.  Therefore the
core message of today's video is clear.  You have to
choose the right plan.  Don't take an emotional decision.  There should be
data driven action.
And that's why choosing the right plan is
not a game of guesswork.  And this is where Ditto
Insurance gives you a transparent, unbiased,
commission-free comparison.
From documentation to policy issuance,
every step is handled by Ditto free of cost.
And once the policy is issued, Ditto
's work does not end here.  Whenever
you need to file a claim, Ditto handles the entire claim
settlement process together with you.
So if you have become
inquisitive after watching this video and want to
know more about it, then you
can book your free 30-minute call.  The link
is in the description and if you find this video
valuable then do like it.
Share it with at least five to ten friends so that they too can
know the right parameters of the insurance on the basis of which
they can compare the insurance.
What other questions do you have in your mind?
Please let me know in the comment section.  This is Sanjay
Kathuria signing off till the next video.
Jai Hind.